Go ahead and find somewhere to sit.
Just take a seat somewhere and put your feet flat on the floor.
Pick a spot up on the ceiling and as you pick a spot overhead, turn your eyes up, not necessarily
turning your head back, just tilt your eyes up.
We want to intentionally tire out those little muscles on the back of your eyelids.
Go ahead and take three or four deep diaphragmatic breaths, that good deep belly breathing.
When you breathe in, your belly comes out.
When you breathe out, your belly button sinks down.
And just notice that this breathing is stimulated in your vagus nerve that tells your brain
to tell your body to relax and let yourself become more groggy, just more and more tired.
And after three or four of those belly breaths, just close your eyes right on down.
Just go deeper, deeper, just go deeper down.
Just breathe.
I'll go ahead and give you some prompts to relax you.
Go ahead and loosen up your neck.
Just let it be like a bunch of little rubber bands.
Just let your head float, float right there like a helium balloon.
Allow your jaws to sag, open your mouth a little bit.
Allow your shoulders to sag, your head floats, your jaws sag, your neck is limp and loose.
Allow your shoulders to sag.
Let your arms and hands, your legs and your feet just go limp, loose and heavy with relaxation.
Arms and hands, legs and feet limp, loose and heavy with relaxation.
Your arms and hands, your legs and your feet so limp, so loose and so heavy with relaxation
that they just feel like heavy lead weights hanging off your body until it just feels
impossible to pick them up.
Just let everything go.
Just breathe.
Very easy breath just takes you deeper and deeper down.
Every diaphragmatic breath takes you deeper and deeper down.
Just breathe.
Drink deeper and deeper down.
Now right here I want you to notice that it would take more energy than it would even
be worth to open your eyes.
It would just take more energy than it would even be worth to open your eyes.
And with every easy breath that you take, your eyes seem to become just a little bit
more and more stuck shut.
Now pretend and imagine that your eyes have become stuck shut.
And the harder you try to open your eyes, the tighter they want to stick.
The harder you try to open your eyes, the tighter they want to stick.
Good.
Stop trying now and just go even deeper.
That's what you want to have happen.
And the better you feel, the deeper you go.
And the deeper you go, the better you feel.
It feels so good to just relax.
It feels so good to just breathe.
It feels so good to just go deeper and deeper down.
Arms and hands, legs and feet like heavy lead weights.
Excellent job.
Now let's get to work.
You are invited to reject any of this if you feel it's not true, right and correct for
you.
You're here to challenge your belief system and find what serves you.
Let's start out with an emotion.
One strong, very low vibration emotion everyone can relate to.
And we all still have some of on a daily basis is guilt.
On the face of it, many believe guilt to be good for us, to serve us, to keep us from
wrongdoing.
We get this from psychologists.
We get it from religion, from the courtroom.
I invite you to suspend what you know for a moment and consider an alternative view
of guilt.
Because guilt has been measured time and again through thousands of kinesiology trials as
the second to lowest level of consciousness on the Hawkins scale.
It measures as highly destructive and comes in many forms.
Guilt, sometimes it's an awful, horrible sensation that eats away at the mind.
It can nibble at your gut and tell you that you need to either deny what you have done
or suffer for what you have done.
Guilt is a form of self punishment.
You believe you need to be punished for what you have done.
So you continue to foster a feeling of guilt.
Maybe you feel guilty for taking too much time for yourself.
Maybe you feel guilty for not being a better mom or dad or brother or sister.
Maybe you feel guilty for eating that piece of cake when you have a goal not to eat sugar.
Maybe you feel guilty over a serious mistake you made years ago.
Maybe you feel guilty over a serious mistake you made today.
Maybe you have more of something than someone else and it makes you feel guilty to have
it, to have more money maybe, or better looks, or a quicker mind.
Maybe you feel guilty for not doing more, for not serving more, for not being more productive
in your day to day life, even if you feel like you're spending all day in what could
be termed as a selfless attitude.
And this form of guilt makes you feel constantly inadequate.
Now even as an adult you still carry guilt with you, maybe even from your childhood.
Maybe you're still as an adult feeling guilty over how you treated someone way back in grade
school.
Maybe you're still in guilt punishing yourself for even just maybe saying something that
someone else misinterpreted and it led to their committing of a sin or a mistake.
And even though that was no fault of yours and you know it, you still feel guilty for
it and it eats at you.
I want you to pretend and imagine that you can take that guilt, whatever that guilt is
that you feel, and put guilt right out in front of you.
As though it were on a chair, right out there in front of you.
Just peel that feeling off of you, pull it off of you, squeeze it out of you, and pretend
and imagine that you put that guilt right out in front of you.
And in your mind, take a good look at it, and have the conversation with guilt.
In your mind, and out loud if you want to, ask guilt.
What is it that you are attempting to do to me or provide me with?
Now listen carefully.
The first thoughts that come back in your mind from the subconscious are the answer.
Guilt, what is it that you are attempting to do to me or provide me with?
Now here is where you have to start to be discerning.
Guilt will probably attempt to tell you that it is helping you.
It helps you to regret the wrong you have done so you can correct it, and maybe telling
you that it wants you to feel remorse so you can undo a wrong that you have committed.
In this way it tells you it is here to help you to keep you safe, to save you.
But here is where you have to be discerning.
Measure guilt's response with your heart.
Often, those who feel guilt believe it to be good because they believe it causes them
to be better.
However, guilt makes us feel bad, yucky, less than, worthless, vindictive, and blaming.
Guilt is what keeps the vicious cycle of victimhood running strong.
Guilt, like shame, results in psychosomatic disease, accident proneness, suicidal behaviors.
Many people struggle with guilt their entire lives, and some people are desperately attempting
to escape it by just denying it altogether.
Being overrun by guilt results in a preoccupation with sin, which preoccupation is an unforgiving
emotional attitude, and guilt is often used as a manipulation tool by religions, by politicians,
and even by parents.
They become obsessed with punishment, and you, in turn, become self-punishing in your
guilt.
Guilt often provokes rage and can even lead to killing, or it leads to punishments that
have never been demonstrated to have any corrective value.
So again, you can choose to be discerning here.
If you feel guilt is a motivator to avoid wrongdoing, and you feel you need to keep
it with you, I invite you to consider another form of motivation that will allow you to
avoid that same wrongdoing that you're wanting to avoid.
Having this new form of motivation, a healthier form of motivation, maybe it's a sense of
moral goodness, of conscience, of excited opportunity to do the right and to be good,
to foster those things that serve you, not because you are guilty, but because you love
the light, the truth, the life that higher motivations and thoughts and emotions bring.
Your conscience, the spirit, God, your enlightened inner voice, is there to tell you when something
is not working for you, or the people around you, when it's not in line with your true
purpose, when you've crossed a line that will lead away from happiness.
Sometimes that voice is loud, sometimes it's soft, sometimes it convicts us with the truth
that feels sharper than a sword, however, it does not inflict real pain, it does not punish,
it only informs.
We, by our own response to being informed, inflict pain upon ourselves for warring against
the voice of conscience.
We have a choice in how we respond to the truth.
With shame, with guilt, with anger, or with conviction to submit to and follow that voice
of conscience and refuse the darkness and self-loathing that comes with guilt.
We know in our hearts that if we ignore that voice of conscience, it will lead to karmic
return of the hard lesson until we learn it, and thus it will lead to suffering.
We can continue to feel bad or guilty, or we can follow the truth until it sets us free.
So, ask guilt.
Guilt are you protecting me, or are you simply attempting to hold me back, bind me down, keep
me stuck, and keep me from moving forward in the manner I'd choose to?
Again, guilt may try to pass itself off as being your friend, it's not your friend.
Pay attention to the voice of guilt and what it wants to convince you of, understand it.
Ask guilt.
Guilt, if I will allow you to stay with me, what is your end goal for me?
Guilt doesn't plan on doing one good thing for you, so start to challenge the guilt.
Guilt you're not my friend.
Guilt you don't help me, you don't serve me, and you don't do one good thing for me.
Your whole purpose is to hold me back, bind me down, keep me stuck, make me feel inadequate,
and keep me from achieving my goals and my dreams and the things I feel I'm supposed to do.
Guilt is not your friend.
When you have that figured out, and you finish that conversation with guilt, and you listen
to and understand the fiery darts of thought that guilt has been placing in you, and you
challenge them with the opposite truth, that you intend to walk through this life with
your head held high, overcoming your challenges, rising to fulfill your purpose, you believe
the truth of who you are, how capable you are, how competent you are, how powerful you
are, how strong you are, how guilt has no power over you to force you to inflict punishment
on yourself unless you believe their lies, tricks, and deceptions.
Guilt is not even you.
When you have that figured out, still pretend and imagine like you have guilt out there
on a chair in front of you.
Now that you see what guilt is doing or has done or could do to you, how's that working
out for you to hold onto guilt?
What do you want to say to that guilt out in front of you?
Confront guilt, say it, you're not my friend, you don't help me, you don't serve me, you
don't do one good thing for me.
Your whole job and goal is to hold me back, bind me down, keep me stuck, and you're not
even me.
As you speak that truth, notice that guilt's power over you is getting weaker.
Now you have a choice, to keep guilt around or get rid of it.
If you choose to get rid of it, you have countless ways to do so.
I'll give you several options you can choose from or you can choose your own way to get
rid of guilt.
You can stuff it in a box, pour gasoline all over that, light it on fire, and just kick
it away as far from you as possible.
Just watch it go up in flames.
You can put it behind bars in jail with a live sentence.
You can tie a belt of grenades around it, pull all those pins, throw it out the window,
just watch it explode.
You can tie a balloon around it, watch it float all the way out into space.
Or you can tie a rock around it and push it over the edge of a cliff into the ocean,
just watch it sink.
Or you can wrap it up like a gift and hand it to your higher power, whose job it is to
transform this for you.
When you're ready, do one of these things to it and in your mind, or out loud, tell it
to go.
In it, go.
Guilt wants you to have guilt, guilt.
It's not even you.
It's guilt, guilt you've been feeling.
It's not even you.
Figure it out.
When you've told it to go and you've overcome guilt, notice how you feel.
Release that and notice how you feel immediately new and different, free from guilt.
And now you can come back to your life free of guilt, full of love, faith, hope, light,
peace, and desire for truth as the new you.
When you're ready, nice and slow, you can come back to the room feeling great and open
your eyes and go ahead and write your experience now in your journal.
